# Backblaze B2 (S3 Compatible) {#b2}

Store files using [Backblaze B2](https://www.backblaze.com/b2/cloud-storage-pricing.html) with S3 compatible storage policy.

## Configuration {#configure}

Create a bucket in the Backblaze B2 console, then go to `Application Keys` and create a set of access keys with `Read & Write` permissions.

In Cloudreve, create an `S3 Compatible` storage policy and fill in the information according to the following rules:

- For `Bucket Name` in the storage policy, enter the name of the bucket you just created;
- For `Endpoint` in the storage policy, enter the `Endpoint` you obtained from the bucket list and add `https://` at the beginning, for example `https://s3.us-east-003.backblazeb2.com`;
- For `Region` in the storage policy, enter the region code observed in the `Endpoint`, for example `us-east-003`;
- For `Access credential` in the storage policy, enter the `keyID` and `applicationKey` of the access key you just created. Make sure there are no extra spaces at the beginning or end;

## CORS Policy

The bucket needs to be configured with a CORS policy before you can use the Cloudreve web interface to upload or browse files. Normally, you can let Cloudreve automatically configure the CORS policy when adding a storage policy.

If you need to configure it manually, download the B2 CLI tool according to the [Backblaze documentation](https://www.backblaze.com/docs/cloud-storage-command-line-tools), and then execute `./b2-linux account authorize` to log in to your account. (You can use the `keyID` and `applicationKey` created above)

Following the prompts, fill in the `keyID` and `applicationKey`, then execute the following command to modify the bucket's CORS configuration:

```bash
./b2-linux bucket update <bucketName> --cors-rules '[
    {
        "allowedHeaders": [
            "authorization",
            "range",
            "content-type"
        ],
        "allowedOperations": [
            "s3_head",
            "s3_get",
            "s3_put",
            "s3_post",
            "s3_delete"
        ],
        "allowedOrigins": [
            "*"
        ],
        "corsRuleName": "s3DownloadFromAnyOriginWithUpload",
        "exposeHeaders": ["ETag"],
        "maxAgeSeconds": 3600
    }
]'
```

## FAQ {#faq}

::: details Upload error: `Request failed: AxiosError: Network Error`

1. Check if the user can connect to your Backblaze B2 bucket Endpoint;
2. Check if the CORS policy is correctly configured;
3. Check `Settings` -> `Filesystem` -> `Upload session TTL (seconds)`, its value should be less than `604800`.

:::

::: details Transfer upload failed, error: `Unable to parse response`

1. Expand the detailed error and check if the error message contains `413 Request Entity Too Large`.

   If so, modify your Nginx reverse proxy configuration, set or increase the value of `client_max_body_size`, such as `client_max_body_size 20000m;`. This setting value should be larger than the size of the files being uploaded.

2. Check if there is an external WAF firewall blocking the upload request.

:::

::: details Add CORS policy error: `Failed to create cors: InvalidRequest: The bucket contains B2 Native CORS rules.`

Go to the B2 bucket CORS policy settings, disable the built-in CORS policy, and then try to add the CORS policy in Cloudreve again.

:::
